- [Instructor] After a token has been issued,
a few maintenance activities may take place
before the token reaches its end of life.
To help manage these activities,
the identity and access management platform
may add some token management features
that are optional or not completely defined
for authorization servers in the OAuth specification.
In the best case scenario,
a token is used for appropriate access by a client
until it reaches its expiration date.
At this point,
it no longer can be used for access to a microservice.
This is typically achieved by setting an expires in claim
on the access token or storing information
regarding its expiration date.
In general, it is best to keep the access token short-lived,
so that if it were to be compromised,
it doesn't provide access for a long period of time.
In some scenarios,
clients may be provided with a refresh token
that allows them to obtain a new access token
without the resource owner involved.
This is helpful when the client needs to access information
when the resource owner is offline.
Now there's one big problem with refresh tokens.
If they're stolen,
they're very similar to a password.
To help mitigate the threat of a stolen refresh token,
they can be rotated by issuing a new refresh token
every time an access token is obtained
using a refresh token.
They just continue to rotate.
In the worst case scenario, access tokens or refresh tokens
are compromised, because they're not well-protected,
and they need to be revoked.
This is not an easy task,
because it requires tokens to be persisted into storage
and may require all tokens consented to by a user
to be revoked.
If tokens are not stored,
it may not be possible to revoke them
until all of the tokens have expired.
In other situations, revocation can occur naturally,
like when a logout occurs.
Sometimes a client is unregistered,
or a resource owner revokes a client's access
to their resources.
To support these scenarios,
the token revocation specification extends OAuth
by introducing an endpoint
that allows a token to be revoked.
After the token's revoked, it can no longer be used.
Finally, let's just cover a few general best practices
for working with tokens.
It's almost a universal standard at this point,
but I do want to point out that all of the calls
that we talked about in OAuth should take place
over TLS to prevent credentials or tokens
from being compromised.
You should never transport any of this information
in the clear.
Additionally, tokens should be protected like passwords,
because anybody with access to a token
can access a microservice.
The same sort of protection should apply to the client ID
and client secret issued to a client.
Also, be sure to include an expiration date
on every access token, keep the expiration short,
and use refresh tokens if necessary.
Without an expiration,
you could be issuing access to a resource forever,
which is not ideal.
Finally, don't include highly sensitive information
inside the payload of a token that leaves your control.
If you need to access sensitive information
from a microservice, there's patterns that can be used
to secure the information.
We've discussed the general purpose of tokens,
their life cycle, and a few best practices.
Understanding how they are used, when they are used,
and the different standards that apply will allow you
to be certain your microservices are securely using them.